The new Texas Avenue had been built, and the new system building, and you helped plant those trees that led out east of the... Yes, yes, yes, that's right.
How big, do you remember, how big were they when you all planted them?
Were they... Oh, no, they couldn't have been...
Five, six feet?
I remember, this is what we talked about 60 years ago.
But I would say that's about right.
Now, of course, I suspect that some of those may have been there, and we just filled in.
You know, maybe some of them died.
I don't know what ever happened, but yes.
Was a fellow named Bob Rucker part of your crew?
Oh, no, no.
He's way down the line, much later, much later.
Oh, okay.
The guy was in charge of the landscape.
Oh, no, no, I was meaning.
Hensel.
Yeah.
No, I was meaning Rucker as a student.
I've heard him talk about helping water trees on the campus.
I don't, I remember the name, but I, no, I don't think so.
Okay.
He might have been.
Describe Mr. Hensel and his responsibility as you recall it.
Well, I didn't know Mr. Hensel personally because he was in charge of the whole campus, all the landscape and so forth.
And so I reported to just about, well, matter of fact, it's right across the street from where Heaton Hall is now, right across there.
There was no parking lot at that time.
That's where it was located.
They had a shop there.
And let's see, the guy that was in charge of was Mike Ringhofer.
He was an old-timer.
I guess you'd call him a lieutenant or whatever it is in that shop.
Now let's go back to your backup a couple years.
As a freshman, you started out in Coast Artillery.
Did you change?
No, I didn't.
Okay.
But, you know, I didn't know that I even could change, you know, in those days.
I was really a very ignorant person.
What was it like for a farm boy to be a fish and to live off campus?
How were you treated in the Corps?
Well, first of all,
I'm sure you know that the guys in the dorms referred to us as day dodgers.
And so we were definitely second class citizens, although they accepted us, but you know, we were not of the inner group, so to speak.
And another thing is that even though some of the day dodgers spent quite a bit of time in their military unit, I was so involved in
uh, milking cows or all the other things.
I, you know, I just, I just sort of reported when I had to and, and when we, uh, we had drill and that sort of thing in the afternoons, I would attend that, but I really wasn't a, uh, shall I say, a wholehearted member of, you know, where he had all this feeling of belonging and all that sort of stuff.
I really felt like an outsider.
But, let me say further, there were others just like me.
I wouldn't have gone from that.
As a freshman, were you hazed?
Not really.
But again, that was, I think, because I didn't live in the dorm and all that sort of stuff.
I can't really recall if someone really, you know... You didn't get paddled?
No.
And since you worked, you didn't have to run errands in the dining hall as some freshmen did.
I didn't meet in the dining hall.
Let's see, did you participate in the drills late in the afternoon?
Yes.
Okay.
Now, I don't know how often those were, yes, but also in those days, sometimes on Saturday mornings, I had to go, that was really the time that we did more stuff.
What was your outfit's nickname?
Did it have a... We didn't have one.
It was just E-Battery Coast Artillery in those days.
I'm sure there were others such as Bloody This or whatever, but if we had one, I don't remember.
Did you acquire a nickname?
Yes, but not very widely.
Oh, what was it?
Since my name is Skrbonik and it's so difficult, you know, I think my roommate, my sophomore year, called him Skrbonik.
So therefore, my name was Skru.
Skru.
And that really was, you know, fairly, you know.
What were the courses that you took those first years that you remember now as being important to you?
Well,
Obviously, the one that was called Fish and Game, that was probably the big one.
I'm sure I took history and English and I took that chemistry course, which I dearly, really hated because I had no preparation for it whatsoever.
I wasn't used to that sort of stuff.
Particularly, I hadn't been attacked that first day.
I lost my appetite for that.
I don't recall really what they were other than just the normal beginning courses.
Were there some teachers or counselors that you now realize were important to you later?
Some people gave you advice?
Yes, there was.
There were a couple of them.
Let me mention one who was not, well, he was in another department and I took a course under me later and that was Wendell Horsley.
Wendell was head of the student, no, he wasn't either.
He had something to do with student employment.
And he really was a great guy.
And I remember going in to see him, told him I needed student employment.
And the thing that really impressed me was that I went in one time and went in about maybe about a week later, and he didn't
He didn't have a receptionist.
We just went in.
It really impressed me because I was at the door and he walked in and he said, well, come on in, Scrivani.
And I thought, my God, anybody remember that name?
After I've seen all those dudes, it must be something special.
And he was.
And I took a course on it.
He taught a forestry course.
I think it was interesting.
He was really very good, too.
But one who really did also impress me, he's had a lot to do with him.
I told you, my first major was ag, whatever it's called, ag education, I guess.
Then the second time I majored in fish and game.
And what happened was that I needed all the money that I could put together to stay in school.
And the NYA permitted us...
to only 40 hours a week, no, 40 hours a month in which to work and get paid 30 cents an hour.
Room and board was $12, so there was my 12 bucks.
But I had some good friends who helped me out by saying, look, I'm going home or something.
I don't need this money.
You go and you under Ringhoffer.
And Ringhoffer knew that we were doing this.
And I put in my time, there's no question about that, and I would sign their name for them working.
When they got paid, they would give me the money, so that was my little extra money.
Anyway, so when I was a sophomore then, I guess, I just couldn't, I had to do, there were so many hours of lab.
and class time that I really couldn't get in 40 hours of work.
And again, I was faced with the question, shall I stay in this or what shall I do?
And I really sort of, and I had a course under Dan Davis.
Commonly, there's one of those nicknames.
He was called Cigar Dan in what was called Rural Sociology.
And I liked it.
I looked through the catalog, and lo and behold, they had 12 hours.
There were no labs, nothing.
So I could really go to school 12 hours, and the other time was free, so I could learn money of different kinds.
So I did a lot of things that I did, as I told you, worked for those guys.
I would work for someone else who had a job in a bowling alley setting bowling pins.
And they would, you know, give me that money at night and others.
So that's how I sort of worked.
Well, we are perhaps off the subject of what we want now, but that's where we are at the moment.
So that's why I really didn't know much about sociology.
But I said, if I'm going to stay in school, I'm going to have to do something else.
So I changed the sociology based on that particular thing, I think, more than anything else.
And Dan Davis was one of those who got me there.
Describe him as a teacher and as a person.
He was a great guy, a fine guy.
He was a very interesting teacher, very interesting.
And he had a certain clever way of presenting his material.
I can't describe it exactly.
He would sort of half close one of those eyes.
He was so convinced that I just enjoyed it.
Anyway, the reason he had, and he was known as Cigar Dan, the reason for that is that
He would take a cigar, and later, after I got my degrees and came back, he was still on the faculty, and so I shared an office with him in those open space.
There were about four of us professors in one room.
Anyway, Dan would take a cigar and cut it in half, and when he left home, he would light that cigar and take a few puffs, and when he got to school, he would rub it out.
go to his class, between classes, he'd come right out, light that cigar again, a few puffs, and so that cigar, half a cigar less, whole day.
I think that, and so many people saw him, that's where he got the nickname, Cigar Dan.
But he was really very good.
And in fact, that nickname was a kind of a symbol of a token of affection, wasn't it?
Oh yes, oh yes, yes, yes.
No one would have said anything negative about him.
He would have just said, oh, and that's something else.
He never really got credit for this, but there was a professor, Dan Russell, in those days, that got credit, and don't misunderstand me, he deserved to have credit.
He was really the organizer of the Project House movement.
And let me say right now that there are many of us, really thousands of students, that owe our a whole lot to him because we never thought of going to school paying those, even though they were not exorbitant, but we didn't have the money, so that's how we stayed in school.
So Dan got credit for running it, but Dan Davis was his right-hand man.
See, they were in the same department.
And Dan Davis did all the ordering of the bread, you know, with the bread companies, getting secondhand bread and all that sort of stuff.
And he was a great actor.
He was a great, great person.
So was he probably a key influence in your becoming a Rural Sociology Specialist?
Yeah, probably.
Yeah, probably so.
Now, during those first couple of years, you didn't have much extra money.
No.
So what did you and your buddies do for a good time?
They were not the good times that a lot of these guys had, believe me.
Oh, his kid, Dick Hervey, who's a classmate of mine, he was president like that.
I didn't even know Dick until he was a senior, you know, and he was a big wheel on campus.
So I was, you know, I spent my time working and studying.
And I, my own admission, I wasn't as smart as a lot of those guys were.
And I spent lots and lots of hours studying.
And I didn't, if you want to talk about, in college, I didn't have what you'd call a good time.
Really.
But did y'all go somewhere for amusement on a Saturday night occasionally?
Well, I would go home.
Okay.
Yeah.
And by the way, all through my college life, my mother, I would take my clothes home.
And after I got there, she would wash them and iron them or whatever it was.
And so I'd
I don't remember ever sending any clothes to the laundry as most everybody else did in those days.
What is now Farm Road 60 going straight to Snook, did that road exist in those days?
Sort of.
Was there a bridge over the river?
Yes, and as you go over the bridge now, let's say you're going west, if you look on the right-hand side,
You can see some old pillars of the old bridge.
And there was a winding road, and I want to also say that when I was in college, particularly the first couple of years or so, that was simply a sandy kind of a, just one set of tracks, that's all.
And if I ever, and when I went home,
Instead of thumbing it, going directly, I would go to Bryan and thumb it to Caldwell and come back in, which was probably, oh I would say probably a 40 mile trip, but it could have been easily 15, but it's put this way.
If I ever got out on that road and the car was coming, I had no problem, that'd sure take you.
But you couldn't count on one being there for three or four hours at a time.
You know, that really wasn't my transportation back and forth.
I mean, how I got there in those days.
Let's see.
How did you dress for class?
Did you wear a uniform?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I spent two years in, you know, ROTC required.
The second two years, we all wore uniforms incidentally.
Regardless, we just were not full ROTC people.
And we didn't attend drills except in the project houses.
Even though we were not in the ROTC program, we still had retreat in the afternoons, all of us, dressed in uniform and all that sort of stuff.
And by the way, even in those days, even those who
Even those who could not pass the physical exam wore uniforms, similar to ours.
We had an identifying patch over here that identified our, like I was in the Coast Artillery, it was a red patch and so on.
The guys who were in Signal Corps had a common orange one and a chemical
what are they called, chemical something, they, you know, each one, so even then they had a patch, I don't know what it said, but you could identify them automatically, but everybody wore you in the swamp.
I guess they were in a wheelchair, I remember everybody in a wheelchair, but nobody did.
As you look back now on those four years, what were the toughest courses for you?
I would have to say the chemistry again.
And you had not had chemistry in high school.
No, and I didn't even know what chemistry was.
I just totally ignored the whole thing.
And fortunately I made very good grades, but I say again, I did not have the
I was not smart in quotes like a lot of the guys were.
Didn't have the background, but I worked like a son of a gun.
I studied and I studied and I studied.
Did you even compute GPAs then?
Oh yeah, yeah.
I made, let's see, I would say after the first year,
thereabouts, maybe a year and a half.
I was what you call a distinguished student every semester.
And that was, you had to be average to do that.
Yeah, that's good.
That's good.
But again, I took the kinds of courses where I was interested in, you know, in my field and so forth, I didn't do blah blah blah, except I did branch off because
In the meantime, the war came on and we had conscription and all that sort of stuff.
And so, by the way, one other thing I did while I was in college those few years, in order to earn some more money, I joined the National Guard in Caldwell.
And we got a dollar for every time we attended a drill.
So I wouldn't hitchhike to call them for a drill.
So what happened then was that the newspaper battalion came out and said, anyone that's in the National Guard, check out now.
Because you've been called to active duty and there you go.
I was probably, I don't know, well I guess a sophomore maybe.
Maybe a junior.
And I was fortunate that there was a Caldwell unit.
So I hitchhiked it over to Caldwell and called up the commander of the unit, who by the way was an old ag graduate.
and they were prominent in Caldwell, and said, look, the student newspaper said check out, I don't know what to do, whatever happened, he said, look, don't do that, since you've got a chance to, you're in college, you've got a chance to get a commission and all that, you have other avenues.
I'm really inundated with people who want to join this unit because they want to go as a local unit together, and I'll get you a discharge from the National Guard, so I've got that.
And anyway, so along came a program called V-7 in the Navy, which said, in effect, if you will pass a physical for the Navy, we will let you go to school, and you must take nine hours of college math.
And once you graduate, we will take you in and we will take you in as a seaman.
You'll be there for about a month and you'll be a midshipman at some school and so forth.
So I signed up with that.
And so we're talking about others.
So I even took trig, trigonometry, and made an A in it, by the way.
But I didn't understand it because I didn't memorize the stuff.
Talking about favorite teachers, one of the guys I really liked was my trig teacher.
His name was John Hill.
He was a real tall, I don't know if you've ever heard of this guy, he was a real tall, lanky, looked like Iggy by a crane.
Anyway he, remember we were all Aggies sitting in the classroom and this is in the main building on campus at that time.
Academic?
Academic, yeah.
And he kind of in his stride, kind of country stride, walks in and puts his book down on the desk and he looked at us and he says, really a country looking guy.
And he looked at us and says, and these are his words I remember.
He said, look here, fellas.
I ain't never taught something like this before and I don't know how it's going to go.
We all look at each other and say, man, what a crazy nut we got here.
But he was undoubtedly the best guy and he was very, very good.
And not only a very good teacher, but he was a very fine person.
If a kid ever slept and fell asleep in class.
He'd be the kind to say, now wait a minute, he'd say, somebody wake Mr. Jones.
And Mr. Jones would say, anyway, he'd say, now Mr. Jones, I don't believe your parents would like you to do this.
You know they're paying for you to go to school.
He was just outstanding.
Did he have a nickname?
I don't know.
I don't remember one for him.
But let me talk about nicknames, I'm going to digress a little bit, because after you talk to me about this, there were a number of them that had nicknames.
For example there was a guy, Mogford, he was called Cotton Joe.
And he was over in agronomy, and he was in charge of the cotton ball and all that sort of stuff.
But anyway, he had the common name of Cotton Joe.
There was another guy you might remember or heard of.
His name was I. P. Trotter.
He was dean of, I don't know what he was.
No, he was, anyway.
And of course his nickname was I. P. And there was also a guy over in
What was at that time, I guess you could call it business.
They probably named the administration.
But Tom Leland was in charge of it at that time.
There was a guy over there that taught a course that we had to take, by the way, in sociology by the name of Hamilton, and his nickname was Mouse.
He was a little bit of a mousy sort of fellow.
That really fit him.
And he was a tough joker.
And a lot of the kids, because they would delay taking his course as long as they possibly could.
Cigar Davis.
There's another guy in the math department named Square Root Jackson.
You ever hear him?
Okay.
Am I correct that supposedly the square root of the number taking the class would pass it?
I don't know.
I don't know that, but that was a nickname.
Well, one former student told me that his class had the reputation for being so tough.
Yeah.
That that was their tease.
I have a story to tell on that one.
You probably, you remember John Ken Cannon maybe?
Okay.
John Ken Cannon, he taught math too.
And he tells us as honest truth now, whether it's true or not.
You know, John was a big storyteller.
He was on the faculty and he tells a story about having a class in an academic building, about on the second or third floor.
And he said while he was there all of a sudden, he said he heard this scraping outside.
There was a ledge there, one of the windows.
He said he went out there to see what it was, he said it was Square Root, and said it was John's story.
He said, I know these guys are cheating, I'm going to catch them.
That was John's story, it was probably true.
Another one, oh, there was a guy by the name of Potter that taught in the biology department.
And he taught a course, I think it was called Comparative Anatomy.
And I think that's also when I was in the fishing game, I had to take that course that was required.
And we all had our own individual dogfish that we had to cut up.
And so his name was Dog Fish Potter.
Dog.
Everybody called him Dog Fish Potter.
He was good, by the way.
Let's see.
Those are some of the names that I recall on hand.
I'm sorry we really digressed.
I'm way away from home.
As you're beginning your sophomore year, the war in Europe starts.
Okay.
Did your family and other families in Snook and Caldwell still have relatives in the old country?
Did you all have any direct relatives?
Not that I know of.
They probably did, but I was not aware.
You weren't aware, all right.
When did you begin to, you and your buddies, when did you all begin to think about World War II and the war in Europe and its effect on you?
I remember on December the 7th of that famous day,
Where were you when you heard the news?
I was in, there were four of us in our room, roommates, in our room in the project house.
Project house number seven, called the Leon County Project House.
And we were just sort of, I don't know what we were doing, just sort of fooling around.
It was kind of a day, kind of like a day.
And it came on and it was on the radio.
And I remember one of my roommates, who was named John Box, by the way, he later was on the Extension Service faculty.
Anyway, I remember him saying, ha, those crazy Japs, we're going to wipe them out in six weeks.
And I remember that very well, but that's where I heard about it first.
Did you even know where Pearl Harbor was?
No.
I was a sixth grader and the next day at school, our teacher looked it up on the map for us and showed us where Pearl Harbor was.
Later I got to visit there, by the way, on one of my shifts in the Navy.
Alright, so during those undergraduate years, you said that you sometimes ate your lunch at the YMCA.
Were there other activities at the YMCA that were important to you and your buddies?
On one side of it, there was a confectionary.
They were down in the basement.
I don't know if you've probably heard of this before.
There was a guy by the name of Doc Lipscomb, I believe, that was rented.
It was a very, very popular place for Aggies.
They got, well that's what it was, the confectionary.
They got the, in those days, cherry cokes and whatnot.
Those kind of things were very popular.
So that was another.
Oh also I remember there also I think was a swimming pool down there, I think.
I don't remember much about it but there sure was.
The major thing there was at Bowling Alley.
Of course, I spent my time there.
Did you have any memory of Mr. Cashin?
Oh, yeah.
Describe him.
Not really well.
I knew he was.
I better back up and admit I really didn't know him that well.
The YMCA also was a home for some campus religious activities.
Did those include you?
No.
Did you go to worship services while you were an undergraduate?
Yes.
My freshman year, I went to College Avenue Baptist Church because the people that I milked the cows for went for it.
And some of the big names in that church were, at that time, there was a very, people like the guy by the name of Judge Barron, you probably heard of him, and those were some of the leaders in that church.
Now, you grew up in what denomination?
Originally, the original name of it was Czech Moravian Brethren.
Okay.
And as time went on, it became, they dropped the Czech and just became Moravian Brethren.
Later, they dropped the Moravian, and now it's just Brethren.
And I'm still a member of Brethren Church here in Bryan Conference Station.
All right.
When you were an undergraduate, did you ever go home to Snook to go to church or...
Not deliberately go to church now.
I went there because I was at home.
And as I said, I tried to go home as much as I could on weekends because I needed a fresh set of clothes.
That sort of thing.
And I presume occasionally you might bring a little bit of food too when you were living in the project house.
Let's see.
Some pranks that you and your buddies played on somebody.
Good bull.
Unfortunately, if you want to put it that way, I was not a prankster.
I don't know if I, and I certainly wasn't an oddball.
I was among our 36 that was in the house, but we never did, we didn't pull pranks on anybody.
Did anybody pull any on y'all?
Not that I can recall.
Okay.
That wasn't because we were all that studious and all, we were just boys and that's all.
Now, describe the general group living in the Leon County house.
A majority of them were from Leon County, and that was Marquet, Centerville.
Buffalo, Jewett.
Yeah, Buffalo Jewett and my roommate from even closer, ah shoot, was Joe Burton Nash, he was one of the smartest guys I ever knew, Norman G. And I guess probably, if I were just guessing, out of let's say 36 that lived there, probably 25.
So we're from that county and the other 11 or 10 of them were kind of fill-ins because they had a room we could fill.
Now, did you all have responsibilities for cleaning that building?
Yes, complete.
Okay.
The freshmen had complete responsibility of, we just had a house mother, and incidentally her husband lived with her, but she was responsible for the food.
But the freshmen all had to help do everything.
Wash, well there were no dishwashers, anything like that.
They had to set the tables, they had to wash the dishes, they had to help her, I don't know what degree, well I'm sure they'd peel potatoes and things like that.